README.md, before:

Flask-Task
==========

This is a pre-interview task for the position of **junior front-end and integration engineer** at BusinessOptics.

The goal of these tasks is to build a very simple banking app that displays your bank balance over time, allows you to update it, and then also shows the equivalent bitcoin value. It is broken up into 5 stages. Once you have completed each stage. Store it in the folder named "stage-X", then create a copy and move on.

This is a simple task and should not take you too long to do. We are interested in the clarity and simplicity of your code. Please include a README on how to run this, a requirements.txt file would be nice to. At a minimum this expects that you can get the python components completed, if you are not comfortable with the javascript sections you submit in a any case.

Fork this repository and when completed send a message to "jobs@businessoptics.biz" with the relevant github repo address.

### (1)
Create a simple flask application (http://flask.pocoo.org/) with a page that displays your bank balance over time. You can make up or simulate the data. At a minimum the page should show a table two columns:
  * Date
  * Balance (in ZAR)


#### Nyasha Bryan Edit

The route to see the bank the balance is set at "/". Also, the rendered page uses Google Font's so, it looks better when used with internet access. The page is being rendered using the Jinja2 template engine and is called base.html.

### (2)
Change the layout and style your page using CSS. The layout should look something like this.

![Mockup](Mockup.png)

The mockup is just a suggestion, you can choose your own colours etc. Try to make it look clean and attractive. We are not looking for ground breaking design, just a demonstration of knowledge. Don't worry about cross browser compatibility, assume a reasonably modern browser. Bonus points for making the layout responsive and work on mobile devices.\

#### Nyasha Bryan Edit

For a quick aesthetic design, bootstrap4 was used in the design to make it look better. Be sure to use the templates with an active internet connection to access the necessary stylesheets and JS.

### (3)
Add a form below the table that allows you set your current balance. When submitted this should store the balance using the session (http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/0.12/quickstart/#sessions) and then when the table is rendered again it should appear at the end of the table. Submitting multiple times should append and grow the list.

### (4)
Use the LUNO API to find the current price in bitcoin and display the bitcoin value of each balance entry in a new column. This is obviously only teh present day value but this is a toy example, so don't worry.

Use the requests library (http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/) to do the API call. The endpoint you need to hit is "https://api.mybitx.com/api/1/ticker?pair=XBTZAR", you can get documentation here (https://www.luno.com/en/api#market-ticker). 

### (5)
Now instead of doing a page reload to add a new balance, use Javascript to do an asynchronous request. This should save the result to the server and adds a new row to the balances table. You may use any javascript library or framework you want (but don't go over board, this should be simple, probably use jquery). I suggest you create a single new endpoint "api/update" that take a Rand figure and returns the full balance history until now, and then you re-render the balance table.

Commit message:

My edit into the ReadMe file

README.md, after:

Flask-Task
==========

This is a pre-interview task for the position of **junior front-end and integration engineer** at BusinessOptics.

The goal of these tasks is to build a very simple banking app that displays your bank balance over time, allows you to update it, and then also shows the equivalent bitcoin value. It is broken up into 5 stages. Once you have completed each stage. Store it in the folder named "stage-X", then create a copy and move on.

This is a simple task and should not take you too long to do. We are interested in the clarity and simplicity of your code. Please include a README on how to run this, a requirements.txt file would be nice to. At a minimum this expects that you can get the python components completed, if you are not comfortable with the javascript sections you submit in a any case.

Fork this repository and when completed send a message to "jobs@businessoptics.biz" with the relevant github repo address.

### (1)
Create a simple flask application (http://flask.pocoo.org/) with a page that displays your bank balance over time. You can make up or simulate the data. At a minimum the page should show a table two columns:
  * Date
  * Balance (in ZAR)


#### Nyasha Bryan Edit

The route to see the bank the balance is set at "/". Also, the rendered page uses Google Font's so, it looks better when used with internet access. The page is being rendered using the Jinja2 template engine and is called base.html.

### (2)
Change the layout and style your page using CSS. The layout should look something like this.

![Mockup](Mockup.png)

The mockup is just a suggestion, you can choose your own colours etc. Try to make it look clean and attractive. We are not looking for ground breaking design, just a demonstration of knowledge. Don't worry about cross browser compatibility, assume a reasonably modern browser. Bonus points for making the layout responsive and work on mobile devices.\

#### Nyasha Bryan Edit

For a quick aesthetic design, bootstrap4 was used in the design to make it look better. Be sure to use the templates with an active internet connection to access the necessary stylesheets and JS.

### (3)
Add a form below the table that allows you set your current balance. When submitted this should store the balance using the session (http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/0.12/quickstart/#sessions) and then when the table is rendered again it should appear at the end of the table. Submitting multiple times should append and grow the list.

#### Nyasha Bryan Edit


Basically Working as required. Everytime the form is submitted it renders the page again with the new balance available.

### (4)
Use the LUNO API to find the current price in bitcoin and display the bitcoin value of each balance entry in a new column. This is obviously only teh present day value but this is a toy example, so don't worry.

Use the requests library (http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/) to do the API call. The endpoint you need to hit is "https://api.mybitx.com/api/1/ticker?pair=XBTZAR", you can get documentation here (https://www.luno.com/en/api#market-ticker). 

### (5)
Now instead of doing a page reload to add a new balance, use Javascript to do an asynchronous request. This should save the result to the server and adds a new row to the balances table. You may use any javascript library or framework you want (but don't go over board, this should be simple, probably use jquery). I suggest you create a single new endpoint "api/update" that take a Rand figure and returns the full balance history until now, and then you re-render the balance table.
